if you think about it your life is a lot
like a video game
you could say it's like a role-playing
game most of all
all you need to do is add the right
icons to your screen
like your health and energy bars there's
your inventory
as well with your phone wallet and keys
in it and of course
everyone's got a skill bar but let's
start from the very beginning
even when you're a baby the game
difficulty is already set to hard
all your skills are at level zero and
your health bar is tiny
which is why you only sleep or eat most
of the time to make sure it grows
when you reach level one you unlock the
ability to walk
but the world map is still closed to you
because there are lots of dangers you're
just not ready for yet
it turns out this game has a really long
demo mode
called childhood most game features are
locked for now
nearly all of your actions are set for
you by your parents
they're like quest givers who help you
gain the experience you need to make
progress
ignoring their instructions can make
leveling up real tough
but if you're polite enough they'll give
you your first gold coins
as long as you're a child you'll
constantly be leveling up
but of course it takes a really long
time your health and skill bars get
bigger as you go to school it's not the
most exciting magic academy
but the students there still carry out
quests and learn new abilities
congratulations you've reached level 18.
now we're really getting into this
role-playing game you're facing a
classic video game choice
you have to select your character class
and the skill path you like the most to
help you conquer the world
while lots of games have different
character classes most of us
end up being the same one in real life
the adventurer who travels the world
doing different tasks to earn gold and
experience
and you still have tons of quests to do
that's right it's also time to leave
behind the safe part of the map where
you grew up
this unfamiliar world is a little like a
dark forest full of enemies
the trouble is the bad guys out there
are sometimes hard to overcome these
monsters have names like responsibility
work and money they keep coming back
even when you thought you'd finally
learned how to deal with them
but if you didn't slack off at school
one day you'll overcome them all
imagine you're in a restaurant and your
date asks you if you like animals
you confidently reply i love cats
here date sighs and says i'm more of a
dog person
quick go to the menu reload the
checkpoint and change your answer
uh sorry but you can't do that remember
that this is one tough video game and
you're still playing on hard mode
this means that you only have one life
you can't just save and then go back if
something goes wrong
every decision and every action has
consequences for you
and the other players around you but
that just makes it more interesting
interaction with other players is one of
the most important parts of the game
but remember you need to be a little
careful here
the admins are a lot stricter than for
other games breaking the rules and
upsetting people
could lead to a completely different
game mode and there isn't much to do in
this version
except look at four walls and a grating
on the window
on the plus side the character
customization in this game is
fantastic you can change your hairstyle
and hair color
get tattoos and piercings really
anything you want
oh and the clothes there's just no limit
to the designer's imagination
with each new level you reach you open
up new abilities and new quests
you encounter tougher challenges but get
better rewards
like more gold or a bigger house
but there's one quest line that's really
unique in this game
when you feel experienced enough you can
start a family
and even create a new character you'll
transfer some of your skills to them
and be their companion in the game until
they're ready to go into the dark forest
to fight the monsters on their own
you'll never get to control this
character though in this game
the plot isn't always about you the ai
does what it wants there's a bunch of
other stuff about this game that's
really unusual as well
let's take the graphics they're just
incredible like
ultra hd and the resolution is
absolutely
stunning but the gameplay is pretty
complicated compared to other games
you need to check your health bar all
the time build relationships with other
characters
earn gold and make sure you rest on time
but the story is the most interesting
part
it's totally up to you what happens sure
it can be boring if you just lie on the
couch and watch other people play
but try hard enough and your character
could become really
important so you need to put the work in
if you want it to be an
interesting experience
[Music]
but there are lots of cool things in
other adventure games that are missing
from this one
for example fast travel imagine what it
would be like if we had this option
you wake up tired but you have to go to
work just go
over to the portal and select the right
location boom
you're already there i think it's
definitely time someone invented this
and we could sure use some cheat codes
as well of course
no one likes a cheater on the server but
imagine how cool it would be
don't have enough money just type in the
cheat and watch the numbers in your bank
account double
feeling sick don't waste your health
potion just use the cheat
and your health bar is full again but
i've got to admit
playing it life like this would become
boring
imagining life as a video game helps us
understand it a lot
a lot of what we do is about setting
small tasks and looking for ways to
accomplish them
with rewards and experience you move on
to more challenging quests
your skills gold and health bars aren't
infinite though
and you need to manage your resources
carefully to reach the next level
some people think that computer games
can be really harmful
they say that gamers spend too much time
in their virtual worlds
and forget about reality there are
actually
a lot of benefits from playing games
from time to time
many of them are designed in the same
way as our real lives and they have
plenty of features that teach us useful
things
games always reward us for our hard work
playing a game from start to finish and
making all that progress along the way
can help you understand that it takes
time and energy to get what you want
hard work always pays off
[Music]
another useful thing that games provide
is communication
hundreds of millions of people play
online games that bring them together in
groups and teams
they have to achieve cohesion and use
good teamwork to pass through a dungeon
or win a match
competitive games can help people learn
to communicate and make compromises
and although it's all just for fun this
is exactly what we have to learn to do
in real life as well
only instead of a dungeon with a scary
monster we have to survive a day at the
office
with an angry boss
and one more thing it's been proven that
a person's strategic thinking
and decision making can improve when
they play video games
in one experiment a group of 50 young
adults who had never played games before
were asked to play an
action game for 50 hours another group
played a slow
strategy game the results showed that
the action game
helped to improve the young people's
perception of visual information
their decision-making skills also
improved this was thanks to the fast
pace of the action game
in these kind of games a large number of
events happen one after another
forcing the player to act and make
decisions
this can have an effect on people's real
lives